# 3356

## Question

Given an array `nums` and a list of queries `queries` of the form `{l, r, v}`, find the minimal amount of queries needed when enumerated in order such that, when every element in `nums[l:r + 1]` is decreased by `v`, `nums` does not contain a positive element.

## Solution

As suggested by the comment, this is an extension of `3355`, which only asks to determine if `nums` does not contain positive element when *all* such queries are applied.

For `3355`, the idea is to count the number of queries each element is covered by, that is, by tracking `sum(x in q for q in queries)` for each `x` in the range. This can be done efficiently by tracking the consecutive differences and recovering the number of cover by cumulative sum.

For `3356`, a direct approach is to use binary search to find the first time `queries[:t]` covers the whole `nums`. The complexity is about `O((n + q) * ln q)` as each check takes about `O(n + q)` time.

Another approach, also suggested in the comment, is to add queries greedily. Given that at each index `i` the approach above ultimately cares only the cumulative sum (on whether it exceeds `nums[i]`), we can iterate through the elements in `nums` and, for each element, check if the current covering covers it: if the current covering already covers it, we move to the next one; if the current covering does not cover it, we add another cover and check again.
To handle both cases, we need to maintain the cumulative sum and the consecutive differences, so the space complexity remains linear. However, as each query and each element in `nums` are only processed once, the time complexity is `O(n + q)`.

