# 2290

## Question

Given a 2D array `grid` of binary of size `m x n`, find the minimal of number of changes of `1` to `0` such that there is a path of `0` from `grid[0, 0]` to `grid[m - 1, n - 1]`. Both endpoints assumed to be `0`.


## Solution

Naively, this is a shortest path problem: you only count blocks that are `1` in the distance. A standard Dijkstra suffices. However, the performance is not great (python: ~1600ms, ~50%). This is possibly due to the cost of maintaining the heap.

To improve the performance, we can replace the heap with other structure. 

Assume now that every node in the heap is of the same distance. At the next step, either the distance stays the same (if the new location is `0`), in which case it should be the next node to expand on, or the distance increases by one (if the new location is `1`), in which case it should be expanded after all current nodes. This means that, at each step of expansion, the distances in the heap would consist of at most 2 distinct values.

In another word, we can replace the heap with a deque. When expanding a node in the front, if the new node has the same distance, we insert it in the front; and if the new node has higher distance, we insert it in the back. (Or flip the direction). This way, the distances in the deque are always sorted. The performance of this approach is ok although there is still room for improvement (python: ~900ms, ~90%). 

For C++ version, the performance is not as good (~150ms, ~80%), possibly due to bad data structure to store the states (`pair<int, pair<int, int>>`). Need to find a better structure.

