# 3445

## Question

Given a string `s` consisting only of `'0', ..., '4'` and an integer `k`, find two (distinct) characters `a, b` from `'0', ..., '4'` with maximal difference `freq[a] - freq[b]` of frequencies `freq[a], freq[b]` for these characters on (continuous) substrings such that

* the substring is of length at least `k`
* `freq[a]` is odd
* `freq[b]` is even (and nonzero)

then return this maximal difference.

## Solution

Since the alphabet is small, we can enumerate all (20) possible pairs and solve a simpler question: what is the maximal difference of frequencies on substrings that satisfy the condition?

To efficiently find the frequency of a character in a range, we can count the frequencies for the prefixes. Since we would need this for all pairs, we can compute this beforehand as `prefix[e][char]` to represent the count of `char` in `s[0:e]`. The required difference for char `a, b` on `s[l:e]` is then `(prefix[e][a] - prefix[l][a]) - (prefix[e][b] - prefix[l][b]) = prefix[e][a] - prefix[e][b] - (prefix[l][a] - prefix[l][b])`.

To enumerate all valid substrings, we can use sliding window: for each `e`, we find the rightmost `l` such that `s[l:e]` has length at least `k` and contains both char at least once. As computed above, the maximal difference is then `max(prefix[e][a] - prefix[e][b] - (prefix[l][a] - prefix[l][b])) = prefix[e][a] - prefix[e][b] - min(prefix[ll][a] - prefix[ll][b] for ll <= l)`. This means that we only need to compute `minDiff[l] = min(prefix[ll][a] - prefix[ll][b] for ll <= l)` for all required `l`, which can be compute iteratively.

To handle the parity condition, notice that whatever parities `prefix[e][a], prefix[e][b]` are, there is a (unique) pair of parities `(pa, pb)` such that `prefix[e][a] - pa` is odd and `prefix[e][b] - pb` is even. To ensure we have the right parities, we must compute `minDiff` for different parities separately as `minDiff[l][pa, pb]`, and only take difference with the correct parities `prefix[e][a] - prefix[e][b] - minDiff[l][pa, pb]`.

Since the pair `a, b` and `b, a` look at the set of characters, we can compute both at the same time. Also, as `minDiff[l][]` can be computed from `minDiff[l - 1][]` (and `prefix[l]`), this can be computed during advancing of `e`. With this tricks, it already yields good performance, although there may still be rooms for further optimization.

