# 889

## Question

Given two arrays of integers `preorder` and `postorder` of the same size, find a binary tree of integers such that `preorder` is the preorder traversal result of the tree, and `postorder`is the postorder result.

It is guaranteed that there exists at least one such tree (and only need to find one), and `preorder` and `postorder` contain unique entries. Although it is not stated explicitly, the traversal order at each node is probably fixed too (if at a certain node preorder traverses the left branch first, postorder should also traverse the left branch first; for otherwise the question would probably be much harder).

## Solution

Observe that in preorder traversal the node value appears before those in the subtree, and in postroder traversal the value appears after the subtree. This means that by locating `preorder[0]` in `postorder`, we can identify the entries in the current subtree, and if `postorder[0] == preorder[0]`, the subtree contains only one node.

This means that we can recover the whole tree recursively: given `preorder` and `postorder` describe the current subtree,
* the subtree root value is exactly `preorder[0]`
    * if `preorder` has only one element, the whole subtree consists of only one node
* find `postorder[i] == preorder[1]`. Then `preorder[1:i + 1]`, `postorder[:i]` describe the left subtree
* if `preorder[i + 1:]` is not empty, there must be a right subtree, and `preorder[i + 1:]`, `postorder[i:-1]` describe this tree

However, finding `i` requires going through the array in linear time (propotional to the subtree size) and blows up the performance to `O(n ln n)` (by master theorem). It would improve the time complexity if we can shave time off in this step.

Note that we do not actually need to know where `preorder` and `postorder` end for the branches, as it is guaranteed that the input is valid and so the subtree root value (`preorder[0]`) must appear in `postorder` after we handled the branches. This means we can use a parser-like approach, and consume the entries until we find a match. That is,
* if `preorder[0] == postorder[0]`, the current subtree consists of only one node, and the remaining entries are from the other branches from the ancestors (which we can ignore for the current subtree)
* remove the value `v = preorder[0]` from `preorder`
* construct the left branch recursively. We will assume that, after the construction, the entries from the left branch are removed from `preorder` and `postorder`
* if `postorder[0] != v`, there must be a right branch. Construct it recursively
* now both left and right branches are constructed, we must have `postorder[0] == v`. Remove it, and return the subtree constructed

Now we do not need to repeatedly find the range of the current subtree, as it must be matched in the last step. This yields a time complexity `O(n)` (as each entries are accessed a constant number of time).

