# 2780

## Question

Given an array `nums`, partition it into two segments `nums[:i]`, `nums[i:]` such that they have the dominant element, that is the element that appears more than half of the time in the segment (majority element), and return the first such index `i`. If no such index exists, return -1

It is assumed that there exists a (unique) dominant element in `nums`.

## Solution

The naive idea is to keep track of the frequencies of the elements in each segment, then update them as we move the partition point. For each partition point, we find the most frequeny of each part by going through the frequencies, checking if they are dominant, and return the partition point as soon as there is a match.

This is the brute force approach, and also the approach I had when I was under stress. It should be noted that this approach also works if we are only looking for mode (instead of dominant) while the latter approaches may not.

As we can see, a large proportion of work is done on
1. updating the frequencies
2. finding the dominant element (by finding the most frequent elements) on each partition point
which is the sacrifice we make as we do not know the target element is in advance.

However, thinking carefully, if `x` is the common dominant element of both segments, it must also be the dominant element of the whole array, as it must occur more than half of the time in both segments.
This means that, once we obtain the domoniant element of the whole array, we just need to count its frequency and compare the frequencies in each part.

It then suffices to ask for the dominant element of an array.
Naive idea is to (partially) sort the array and take median, but since we need the original array later, this would introduce cost in copying the elements.
Another idea is to keep a hash table of frequencies, then walk though the table to find the element. This does yield decent performance, but is still suboptimal: we need `O(n)` time to traverse the array, and `O(uniq element count) \approx O(n)` time to check the whole table.
Since we only to find the dominant element, we can use [BM vote algo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boyer%E2%80%93Moore_majority_vote_algorithm), which does the job in linear time (with another linear time to obtain the frequency).

