# 1140

## Question

Given an array `piles` of integers, two players take turns to take elements from the head of the array. If `m` is the maximal amount of elements taken so far, then each player can take at least `1` and at most `m * 2` elements, with `m` initially set as `1`. After all elements are taken, the game ends.

Find the maximal sum the first player can take if both players play optimally.

## Solution

Let the two players be A and B. The maximal amount that player A can take is just the maximal of `(sum of elements to take) + (maximal amount after B's move with updated index and constrain)`, iterated over all possible choices A has. It is easy to see that, after A's initial move, the two players switch roles: B is now the first player, and A is now the second. This means the second term above is just `maximal amount the second player can take`, and it is easy to see this is the same as `(sum of the remain) - (maximal amount the first player can take)`.

All these means that the problem can be solved with DP: if `dp[i][m]` is the maximal amount the first player can taken when starting at index `i` and constrain `m`, then `dp[i][m] = max(sum(piles[i : i + amount]) + (sum(piles[i + amount : ]) - dp[i + amount][mNew]) for amount in range(1, m * 2 + 1)) = max(sum(piles[i:])) - dp[i + amount][mNew] for amount in range(1, m * 2 + 1))`, where `mNew` is the updated `m`.

We can precompute all `sum(piles[i:])` as postfix sums. The edge case where the first player can take the whole remaining array is also easy to handle.

A top-down approach seems to be the most natural, but a bottom-up approach should be feasible after pruning states `(i, m)` that cannot be reached.
