# 862

## Question

Given an integer array `nums` and an integer `k`, find the length of the shortest (continuous) subarray which has a sum at least `k`, or return `-1` if no such subarray exists.

`nums` may contain negative numbers.

## Solution

Since `nums` may have negative numbers, the usual approaches that requires monotonicity (like sliding window) do not work well.

A straight-forward idea is to use monotone stack: storing each prefix sum in an increasing stack, and binary search to find the first location where the prefix sum is small enough. Each prefix sum require a binary search, so the overall time complexity is about `O(n ln n)`. While this looks good enough, (at least for python) the performance is quite bad (~620ms, ~5%). For a decent performance, a `O(n)` approach would be necessary.

It would be good if we do not need to do binary search each round.

Consider first the easier case where every number in `nums` is nonnegative. In this case, the prefix sum is nondecreasing, and so is the binary search result. This means that we can replace the binary search by repeatedly `popleft` until the first element in the monotone stack is too large. This would yield a time complexity of `O(n)` (since every element in the stack will be removed after accessed).

The question is: does this still work if `nums` contains negative entries? Suppose the current prefix sum is smaller than the last. The corresponding binary search match must then be located before the last match, and so the result length must be larger then the last length. (This includes the case where there is no last match = the last match is infinitely far away.) This pattern will continue to hold for all future prefix sum until there is one that surpasses the (current) last sum. In another word, we do not need to care about the entries that are `popleft`ed as they will not be the minimal length. So the same approach works even if there are negative entries.

With this approach, the time complexity is `O(n)` although (in python) the performance is still quite bad (~220ms, ~30%). At a quick glance others' code are mostly the same approach. Not sure how to further speed up.

