# 650

## Question

Find the minimal amount of operations needed to reach `n` characters starting with one character with the following operations:
* copy all letters into the buffer
* paste the letters from the buffer (does not alter the buffer)
The buffer is initially empty.

## Solution

Naively, this can be seen as a shortest path problem, with states being `(current letter count, buffer size)`; a simple implement of Dijkstra already suffices.

Alternatively, this can also be seen as a DP problem, with a natural bottom-up approach. A simple optimization is to store the memo as a list of hash tables, which avoids enumerating states that are not reached.

If we print out the results, it is easy to see a pattern: on prime `n` the minimum is exactly `n` (e.g. `f(43) == 43`). This hints that the problem is related to prime factorization. In fact, with some simple calculation we can observe that the answer appears to be the sum of the prime factors of `n` counting with multiplicity (e.g. `24 == 2 * 2 * 2 * 3` and `2 + 2 + 2 + 3 == 9 == f(24)`).

The reason for this is simple: a (meaningful) sequences operations must be a sequence of "copy then paste a few times", and starting with `x` characters, pasting `k` times results in `k * x` characters. This means that for `n` characters the number of operations must be a sum of some integers that multiply to `n`. With a simple mathematical argument we can see that the minimum occurs when these numbers are all prime.

So, we just need to compute the sum of the prime factors (with multiplicity) of a given number, which can be done in many ways. Since in the question `n <= 1000` and there are only 168 primes under 1000, we can even hard-code the whole prime table we need.

Looking back on how this solution is derived, we can also see that a greedy approach works: we first do a copy-paste, then keep pasting until the current count is a factor of `n`, and we start over until we reach `n`. Performance-wise this seems to be on par with prime factorization, but the code is much simpler.

